{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Appendix: Experiment programming decisions\
How much APE to use?\
presenter only (to simplify TDT interface)\
presenter + stim + responder\
include experiment object only to store data & objects; write presentation, etc. functions directly in main program. \
use experiment methods (goInit) etc to compartmentalize functions (as subfunctions within main file or separate m-files)\
One stim or two? \
Most experiments could use one stim object, modifying its params between intervals (to turn a tone on / off, etc).\
Alternative is to generate one stim for each interval\
In most cases, no difference. Choose accordingly.\
Experiment programming decisions\
Object types vs object classes\
Object-oriented approach allows to incorporate new functionality by subclassing (new objects that inherit behavior of parents).\
APE approach has been instead to make objects general enough that different \'91types\'92 of each object can be created by supplying different function handles and appropriate contents for params, status, etc. \
Each experiment will have its own \'91type\'92 of stim, responder, tracker, and experiment objects (though many default functions may be used, at least a few will be custom). Some of these custom types (or their component functions) might get re-used in other experiments. \
\
When would subclassing become necessary? Never? \
Still to do\
More tracker types\
More example experiment programs\
Oticon 16-tracker ripple study, NIH IRN study, UW head-tracked studies, other basic paradigms (single-interval tone-in-noise, etc).\
GUI integration\
Pretty straightforward. Expect GUI to collect params prior to object initialization, monitor pause, plot track(s), etc. \
GUI \'93checklist\'94?\
More complete documentation\
Fill out the MATLAB help\
Tutorial manual\
\
\
}